 
                                     ABOUT  THE PROJECT 


Nowadays Phishing becomes a main area of concern for security researchers because it 
is not difficult to create the fake website which looks so close to legitimate website. Experts can 
identify fake websites but not all the users can identify the fake website and such users become 
the victim of phishing attack. Main aim of the attacker is to steal banks account credentials. In 
United States businesses, there is a loss of US$2billion per year because their clients become 
victim to phishing [1].  

In 3rd Microsoft Computing "Safer Index Report released in February 2014", it was used in the 
estimated that the annual worldwide impact of phishing could be as high as $5 billion [2]. 
Phishing attacks are becoming successful because lack of user awareness. Since phishing attack 
exploits the weaknesses found in users, it is very difficult to mitigate them but it is very important 
to enhance phishing detection techniques.The general method to detect phishing websites by 
updating blacklisted URLs, Internet Protocol (IP) to the antivirus database which is also known as 
“blacklist" method.  

To evade blacklists attackers uses creative techniques to fool users by modifying the 
URL to appear legitimate via obfuscation and many other simple techniques including: fast-flux, 
in which proxies are automatically generated to host the web-page; algorithmic generation of new 
URLs; etc. Major drawback of this method is that, it cannot detect zero-hour phishing attack. 
Heuristic based detection which includes characteristics that are found to exist in phishing attacks 
in reality and can detect zero-hour phishing attack, but the characteristics are not guaranteed to 
always exist in such attacks and false positive rate in detection is very high [3]. 
To overcome the drawbacks of blacklist and heuristics based method, many security 
researchers now focused on machine learning techniques. Machine learning technology consists 
of a many algorithms which requires past data to make a  decision or prediction on future data. 
Using this technique, algorithm will analyze various blacklisted and legitimate URLs and their 
features to accurately detect the phishing websites including zero- hour phishing websites. 



1.2 OBJECTIVES 

Even though there are many ways to identify phishing today, it has grown to be 
exceedingly challenging to identify false emails and messages in the contemporary 
environment. Whitelisting, heuristics, blacklisting, and machine learning are some of the 
tools available today for identifying phishing emails. This chapter suggests a machine 
learning strategy to recognize phishing emails and prevent users from disclosing their pin, 
user ID, or passwords. In this research, we presented a variety of machine-learning methods 
to detect phishing attempts of any form. Given that the input URL might either be considered 
phishing (1) or legal(0), we employed the data set that falls within the classification problem. 
In this project, the following supervised machine learning models (classification) are taken 
into consideration to training the data.
